Title: Filters

Filters can can be appended to most API calls.

* **`subject`** match, supports regex if string starts with `/`

* **`email`** (string) address. filters by any messages sent, received from, or also sent to this address.


* **`to`** all messages sent to an address

* **`from`** all messages from an address

* **`cc`** all messages cc'd to an address (by anyone)

* **`bcc`** all messages bcc'd to an address (likely by you, since that header is removed by SMTP gateways)

* **`email`** all messages containing an address in any of the from, to cc or bcc fields.

* **`thread`** the given identifier for a thread

* **`folder`** or **`label`** (string) This parameter can be the complete folder name with the appropriate hierarchy delimiter for the mail server being queried (eg. Inbox/My folder) or the "symbolic name" of the folder. The symbolic will be resolved to the localized-version of the special folder in the mailbox. Options include `all`, `archive`, `drafts`, `flagged`, `junk`, `sent`, and `trash`. These are based on [RFC-6154](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6154). Note that in Gmail, `flagged` is the same as the Starred folder.

* **`filename`** name of a file in a message/thread

* **`last_message_before`** (integer, unix time) Get threads whose most recent message is dated before this timestamp. The value this filter is applied to is the Date: header of the message which refers to the time the message is sent from the origin.

* **`last_message_after`** (integer, unix time) Get threads whose most recent message is dated after this timestamp. The value this filter is applied to is the Date: header of the message which refers to the time the message is sent from the origin.

* **`started_before`** (integer, unix time) Get threads whose first message is dated before this timestamp. The value this filter is applied to is the Date: header of the message which refers to the time the message is sent from the origin.

* **`started_after`** (integer, unix time) Get threads whose first message is dated after this timestamp. The value this filter is applied to is the Date: header of the message which refers to the time the message is sent from the origin.

* **`limit`** (integer) this defaults to 100 for performance. Set 0 for no limit.

* **`offset`** (integer) zero-based offset to be used with limit for pagination of results
