Title: Calendar

The events endpoint is used to manage calendar style events.

# Retrieving a specific event's metadata

```
:::xml
GET https://api.inboxapp.com/n/<namespace_id>/events/<event_id>
```

**Response:**

```
:::json
{
    "all_day": false,
    "body": null,
    "busy": true,
    "end": 1407409200,
    "id": "2332er2f1gc5hxfgf1yxb3e75",
    "namespace_id": "6njcbog8c23gzindlp2e3547p",
    "object": "event",
    "recurrence": null,
    "reminders": "[30]",
    "start": 1407405600,
    "subject": "yoga",
}
```

# Retrieving many events

This endpoint supports [filters](#filters), which allow you to fetch multiple events matching specific critera. For example, the following will limit the number of results to 3. Note the `/` character in the content type has been replaced by the [percent-encoded](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Percent-encoding) value `%2F`.

**Options:**

* `limit` - Maximum number of results to return. Defaults to 100. If `limit` is set too high, a request may fail with HTTP status code 400 to prevent excessively large response bodies.
* `offset` - Zero-based offset to be used with `limit` for pagination of results.

```
:::xml
GET https://api.inboxapp.com/n/<namespace_id>/events?limit=3
```

# Adding a new event

New events can easily be created with the following API. Note these currently only exist within Inbox, and do not sync back to the provider (e.g., Google Events).

Note that timestamps are expected to be in UTC timezone.

```
:::xml
POST https://api.inboxapp.com/n/<namespace_id>/events
```

**Sample post body**

```
{
    "subject":"Friday meeting",
    "start": "1407542195",
    "end":"1407542195",
    "busy": false,
    "all_day": false
}
```

**Sample response**

```
:::json
{
    "all_day": false,
    "body": null,
    "busy": false,
    "end": 1407758400,
    "id": "deue71ylhmz2vp47frnkgqmyz",
    "namespace_id": "6njcbog8c23gzindlp2e3547p",
    "object": "event",
    "recurrence": null,
    "reminders": null,
    "start": 1407754800,
    "subject": "Monday meeting",
}
```

# Uploading a .ics file

It is also possible to create new events by uploading a .ics file. To do so, post the file data to the event creation endpoint with the `content-type` header set to `text/calendar`.


# Updating an existing event

The Inbox API does not yet support updating existing events or syncing changes back to underlying mail providers. Check back soon for this functionality.

# Deleting an existing event

The Inbox API does not yet support deleting events. Check back soon for this functionality.
