Title: Contacts

The Inbox API provides access to the user's contacts, making it easy to add contact autocomplete, address book integration, and more to your application.

# Retrieving contacts

```
:::xml
GET https://api.inboxapp.com/n/<namespace_id>/contacts
```

Fetch the user's contact list. This API supports query parameters which make it easy to search the user's contacts. Available query parameters are listed below:

**Options:**

* `filter` - If given, only return results containing this parameter as a substring of the contact's name or email address.
* `limit` - Maximum number of results to return. Defaults to 100. If `limit` is set too high, a request may fail with HTTP status code 400 to prevent excessively large response bodies.
* `offset` - Zero-based offset to be used with `limit` for pagination of results.

**Sample Response:**

```
:::json
[
    {
        "name": "Ben Bitdiddle",
        "email": "ben.bitdiddle@mit.edu",
        "id": "8pjz8oj4hkfwgtb46furlh77",
        "namespace_id": "aqau8ta87ndh6cwv0o3ajfoo2",
        "object": "contact"
    },
    ....
]
```

# Retrieving a single contact

```
:::xml
GET https://api.inboxapp.com/n/<namespace_id>/contacts/<contact_id>
```

This endpoint retreives details about a specific contact.

**Sample response:**
```
::json
{
    "name": "Ben Bitdiddle",
    "email": "ben.bitdiddle@mit.edu",
    "id": "8pjz8oj4hkfwgtb46furlh77",
    "namespace_id": "aqau8ta87ndh6cwv0o3ajfoo2",
    "object": "contact"
}
```

# Creating a contact

New contacts can be easily created. Note these currently only exist within Inbox, and do not sync back to the provider (e.g., Google Contacts).

```
:::xml
POST https://api.inboxapp.com/n/<namespace_id>/contacts/
```

**Sample post body**

```
:::json
{
    "name": "Bill Rogers",
    "email": "wbrogers@mit.edu"
}
```
**Sample response**

```
:::json
{
    "email": "wbrogers@mit.edu",
    "id": "cwcr6raeh2s4966cfo9bgajev",
    "name": "Bill Rogers",
    "namespace_id": "aqau8ta87ndh6cwv0o3ajfoo2",
    "object": "contact"
}

```

# Updating an existing contact

The Inbox API does not yet support updating existing contacts or syncing changes back to underlying mail providers. Check back soon for this functionality.

# Deleting an existing contact

The Inbox API does not yet support deleting contacts. Check back soon for this functionality.
