Title: Sync Engine Services

The open source Inbox Sync Engine includes two separate processes, one for syncing accounts with underlying providers, and another for responding to REST API requests. To use your development environment, you need to start both processes.

Inbox Sync Service
-----

Start the sync process by running the command below from the `/vagrant` directory of your VirtualBox. Note that you may want to run the server in a separate shell within tmux or in the background.

```
:::bash
$ bin/inbox-start
```

Once the sync process is running, you can authenticate an email account and start a sync. In a new VirtualBox shell in the `/vagrant` directory, run the commands below:

```
:::bash
$ bin/inbox-auth [YOUR_ACCOUNT]@gmail.com

$ bin/inbox-sync start [YOUR_ACCOUNT]@gmail.com
```

The `inbox-auth` command will walk you through the process of obtaining an authorization token from Google or another service for syncing your mail.In the open-source version of the sync engine, your credentials are stored to the local mySQL database for simplicity. At this time, the open-source Inbox Sync Engine does not support Exchange, but you can request access to the Exchange beta <a href="/docs">here</a>.

The `inbox-sync` command tells the sync process to start syncing your account with the underlying provider. Note that an initial sync can take quite a while depending on how much mail you have.

Inbox API Service
-----

The Inbox API service provides a REST API for interacting with your Inbox data. To start it in your development environment, run command below from the `/vagrant` folder within your VM:

```
:::bash
$ bin/inbox-api
```

This will start the API Server on port 5555. At this point **You're now ready to make requests!** If you're using VirtualBox or VMWare fusion with Vagrant, port 5555 has already been forwarded to your host machine, so you can hit the API from your regular web browser.

You can test that the server is working properly by hitting the `/n/` API which lists synced accounts. There is no authentication built in to the open source sync engine, so you query the API with a simple cURL command:

```
:::bash
$ curl http://localhost:5555/n/
```

Now you can start writing your own application on top of the Inbox API! See either the <a href="/docs/ios">iOS SDK Docs</a> or the <a href="docs/javascript">JavaScript SDK Docs</a> to get started. For more information about the internals of the Inbox API, see the <a href="/docs/api">Inbox API Documentation</a>.

